pybytes/connect/README.md, before:

# Add a device to Pybytes

In this section, we will explain to you how to add a device to Pybytes

## Step 1: Add device wizard

In Pybytes, go to `Devices` Page:

1. Click on `Add Device`.

![](../../.gitbook/assets/1-1.jpg)

2. Select your device \(e.g., WiPy, LoPy, SiPy, etc.\);

![](../../.gitbook/assets/2-1.jpg)

3. Select your shield \(e.g., PySense, PyTrack, PyScan or other\);

![](../../.gitbook/assets/3%20%281%29.jpg)

4. Select your network option;

![](../../.gitbook/assets/4%20%281%29.jpg)

5. Enter a unique name and the network credentials \(SSID and password\) for your device;

![](../../.gitbook/assets/5-1.jpg)

## Step 2: Connect your device to Pybytes

At the end of the "Add Device" wizard, Pybytes will give you two options for you to connect your device to Pybytes:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/7-1.png)

Select how you would like to connect your device to Pybytes:

1. [Connect your device quickly \(Recommended\)](quick.md)

{% page-ref page="quick.md" %}

2. [Connect your device by flashing Pybytes Library](flash.md)

{% page-ref page="flash.md" %}

{% hint style="info" %}
From firmware 1.16.x onwards all Pycom devices come with Pybytes library built-in `/frozen` folder. That means that you can choose between adding your device quickly with the firmware updater or you can flash Pybytes library manually.
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

Updated pybytes "add device" page
replaced screenshots
removed "shield" step

pybytes/connect/README.md, after:

# Add a device to Pybytes

In this section, we will explain to you how to add a device to Pybytes

## Step 1: Add device wizard

In Pybytes, go to *Devices* Page:

1. Click on *Add Device*.

![](../../.gitbook/assets/1-1.jpg)

2. Select your device \(e.g., WiPy, LoPy, SiPy, etc.\);

![](../../.gitbook/assets/2-1.jpg)

4. Select your network option;

![](../../.gitbook/assets/pybytes/add-device/network-step.png)

5. Enter a unique name and the network credentials \(SSID and password\) for your device;

![](../../.gitbook/assets/5-1.jpg)

## Step 2: Connect your device to Pybytes

At the end of the "Add Device" wizard, Pybytes will show that your device profile was successfully created.

![](../../.gitbook/assets/pybytes/add-device/final-step.png)

Select how you would like to connect your device to Pybytes:

1. [Connect your device quickly \(Recommended\)](quick.md)

{% page-ref page="quick.md" %}

2. [Connect your device by flashing Pybytes Library](flash.md)

{% page-ref page="flash.md" %}

{% hint style="info" %}
From firmware 1.16.x onwards all Pycom devices come with Pybytes library built-in `/frozen` folder. That means that you can choose between adding your device quickly with the firmware updater or you can flash Pybytes library manually.
{% endhint %}
